#compliance #GRC 

# NIST 800-53

1. [[Access Control (AC)]] - Ensures that access to system resources (hardware, software, firmware, information/data, and telecommunications) is limited to authorized users, processes, or devices, and is managed consistent with the system and organization's risk strategy.

2. [[Awareness and Training (AT)]] - Addresses the security awareness and training needed by users, managers, administrators, system owners, and developers to effectively implement security controls.

3. [[Audit and Accountability (AU)]] - Establishes, configures, operates, and maintains system audit logs and infrastructure.

4. [[Security Assessment and Authorization (CA)]] - Determines the security controls' effectiveness in an information system, ensuring that the system operates as intended.

5. [[Configuration Management (CM)]] - Controls system configurations for hardware, software, firmware, and documentation.

6. [[Contingency Planning (CP)]] - Provides for system availability by establishing effective contingency planning practices and procedures.

7. [[Identification and Authentication (IA)]] - Ensures that the identity of users, processes, or devices is authenticated before allowing access to the system.

8. [[Incident Response (IR)]] - Establishes incident handling and reporting capabilities, which helps the organization to respond promptly and effectively to information security incidents.

9. [[Maintenance (MA)]] - Ensures effective maintenance of systems, which contributes to the system's integrity, availability, and confidentiality.

10. [[Media Protection (MP)]] - Protects information system media containing sensitive or critical information.

11. [[Physical and Environmental Protection (PE)]] - Ensures the physical and environmental protection of information systems.

12. [[Planning (PL)]] - Guides the development and implementation of the security plan for the system.

13. [[Personnel Security (PS)]] - Ensures that individuals occupying positions of responsibility within organizations (including third-party service providers) are trustworthy and meet established security criteria.

14. [[Risk Assessment (RA)]] - Guides the conduct of risk assessments and the application of risk mitigation strategies.

15. [[System and Services Acquisition (SA)]] - Guides the system and services acquisitions, ensuring that the organization obtains necessary security controls.

16. [[System and Communications Protection (SC)]] - Protects the integrity and confidentiality of transmitted and received information.

17. [[System and Information Integrity (SI)]] - Ensures the integrity and quality of system and information.

18. [[Program Management (PM)]] - Guides the management of the security program and the resources dedicated to the information security program.